The married couple, both 30, said their dream of a new life was shattered. They claim Induna Mlethwa Ndlela and his family accused them of selling drugs and liquor. Nonkululeko said they had only been in the area since July, after relocating from Amaoti, in the north of Durban, following similar treatment by neighbours there. Ndlela and his son, with other community members, stormed into our house and told us to leave. He said we were bringing bad luck to the area. They regarded our relationship as a taboo. We had no choice but to go into hiding while leaving behind our daughter to finish her school term with a relative after she was also threatened. Nokuthula said she did not understand why people were homophobic. She appealed to be left alone and for insults on social media to stop. Everywhere we go there are haters wanting to dictate how we should live. But what we share cannot be destroyed. We have been through a lot since we married two years ago. We want our house back. After Nokuthula s parents found out about her relationship with Nonkululeko they rejected her, saying she had embarrassed the family. They also failed to accept her chosen partner as a wife. The pair said they had run out of cash after booking cheap places to sleep while in hiding. This has affected our business plans. Back home we were running a tuck-shop which supplied the community in an area. We were also planning to start a panel-beating business. When Ndlela was contacted for a comment, he referred Independent Media to chief Bhekisisa Bhengu. Bhengu accused the couple of being a bad influence by selling liquor and dagga and disturbing people at night with their music. He denied Ndlela had used his position to get rid of the couple because they were lesbians. We do not discriminate on sexuality. We live in harmony with gays and lesbians but they should respect others as well. Illegal selling of liquor is what angered the community. Bhengu said he was prepared to solve the problem, provided that the person who handed over a site to the couple was available to discuss the proper channels that needed to be followed, adding that they had not been properly introduced in the community. Durban s lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community director, Nonhlanhla Mkhize, said it was shocking there was still so much hatred towards others based on their sexuality. Mkhize said this year they had buried five people killed because of their sexual status. Commission for Gender Equality chairman Mfanozelwe Shozi confirmed they were investigating the young couple s situation. Sunday Tribune