Durban - A crackdown on corruption within eThekwini Municipality has uncovered cases of ghost employees - people who are paid salaries despite not doing any work for the municipality. In some incidents, salaries are being paid into bank accounts of dead staff. The finding comes in the wake of an internal investigation ordered by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede, who stepped into office in August, promising to quash the fraud and corruption which has plagued the municipality s image in recent years. Gumede would not confirm details about the so-called ghost employees, but said she was concerned and that investigations were under way. I am not policing employees, but we need to ensure we address concerns raised on issues of fraud and corruption and send a strong message on our seriousness to tackle this issue. We are committed to good governance and this includes addressing all complaints. We are also conducting an audit on employees skills and qualifications and evaluating our supply chain processes where there are allegations of collusion, Gumede told The Sunday Tribune.However, several other senior sources at the municipality confirmed that the investigations included a look at the alleged ghost employees. We have completed almost 60 percent of the skills audit so far among our staff of 24000 There are some concerns around ghost employees and this will be uncovered by investigations which are still on-going. The mayor is cleaning up and this must be welcomed, said the source.The municipality has been plagued by allegations of internal corruption, nepotism and financial irregularities in its tender processes over the past five years. In 2012 the city was rocked by explosive findings in the Manase report, which called for action to be taken against several senior city officials. However, most of those implicated in the report resigned before action could take place. Former municipal manager Michael Sutcliffe challenged the report s findings, arguing that the report was flawed and failed to provide those implicated an opportunity to respond to the allegations. Following a two-year legal tussle and the threat of a R10 million lawsuit against his successor, S bu Sithole, Sutcliffe eventually reached an out of court settlement with the city.Sithole has also came under fire amid allegations of irregularities and failure to act on complaints. His contract ends this month amid speculation it will not be renewed. While the number of ghost employees within eThekwini Municipality has not yet been verified, the Sunday Tribune understands it is costing tax payers hundreds of thousands of rands each month.Sunday Tribune