The DA performance measurement system used to gauge the competency of its councillors is being challenged internally as some allege certain leaders are using it for their own gain.KwaZulu-Natal provincial deputy leader Mergan Chetty was one of the leaders fingered for using the performance measurement development system to sideline certain individuals.One of them was Clive Lotz, ward 32 councillor in Pietermaritzburg. He snatched the ward from the ANC in the August 3 election. But he had to fight internally to contest the ward. Several sources said Lotz was suspended at the party&#x2019;s office in Pietermaritzburg ahead of the elections. This was seen as a ploy to discredit him and prohibit him from standing as a ward candidate. According to sources, he fought all the way to the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration and won. He was reinstated as ward candidate just days before the polls.Former DA councillor Lungisani Sikhakhane, who defected to the ANC weeks before the August elections, said the same system was used to bar him from standing as a ward councillor. Subsequently, he terminated his membership, which spanned more than 10 years.A senior party member who spoke &#x201C;strictly&#x201D; on condition of anonymity admitted that some leaders were abusing the system.&#x201C;A lot of promising young leaders are barred from standing as ward candidates because of this system. Look what Lotz did. He was initially suspended for no apparent reason but went on to win the ward for us,&#x201D; he said. &#x201C;It is just messy internally. There are so many things are happening,&#x201D; said the member.The member also said concerns were being raised internally about leaders using the system to block certain people from positions.It is claimed that those who are perceived to be close to former provincial leader Sizwe Mchunu were prevented, through the system, from taking positions of authority within the party.Lotz would not be drawn into commenting.&#x201C;It is an employer-employee kind of a matter. But I am not prepared to talk about how I defeated the ANC in the ward,&#x201D; he said.Chetty, a known ally of party leader Zwakele Mncwango, could not be reached for comment.Attempts to contact Chetty were unsuccessful as his phone rang unanswered. He also did not respond to messages on his phone.However, while admitting he was aware of the matter, provincial leader Haniff Hoosen defended Chetty. &#x201C;This process had nothing to do with Mergan Chetty. Mergan is the MP for the constituency of Pietermaritzburg and has no right in the decision-making authority in this process.&#x201D;He said the purpose of the system was aimed at ensuring all their candidates were good performers. &#x201C;We have a responsibility to ensure we appoint the very best candidates and public representatives,&#x201D; he said.The Sunday Independent IOL News on Facebook IOL on Twitter