Johannesburg - Outspoken ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu has clashed with loyal Jacob Zuma supporters at the party s national working committee, after openly accusing the president of using state resources to fight Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan.The battle lines are ready to be drawn in the ANC as the fallout over Gordhan becomes more pronounced. An irate Mthembu ripped into Zuma, accusing him of using state resources to fight his political enemies.Zuma was sharply reminded by Mthembu how the ANC protected him when he was facing difficult times after being slapped with at least 700 corruption charges of fraud, money laundering and racketeering by the Scorpions during the Thabo Mbeki era.At the time, angry Zuma supporters accused Mbeki of using state resources to wage party battles - which led to his ousting as party president in Polokwane in 2007.Mthembu s warning did not go down well with Zuma loyalists. ANC Youth League president Collen Maine and the ANC Women s League president Bathabile Dlamini leapt to Zuma s defence. An outraged Dlamini is said to have called for Mthembu to be removed as the ruling party s chief whip in Parliament. Sources say they also demanded Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi, his deputy Joe Phaahla, and all the others who had rallied around Gordhan be dealt with.Asked to comment yesterday, Mthembu confirmed the report: It is indeed true that I was attacked by Maine and Dlamini. They called me all sorts of names, like popcorn (and) sell-out . However, I remain unfazed. I m ready to protect and save the ANC that taught me that if something is wrong, it is wrong, (and) therefore it must be rectified. Mthembu, describing the meeting as his lowest point, said: Zuma attended the meeting and I told him that when he was charged we supported him. I told him all the national working committee members, including the president, are going to support comrade Pravin come November 2 (his court case). I m not doing this to be a hero in the media but to protect the ANC from all these wrongs. I m not doing this to profile myself but to restore the dignity of the organisation. I don t care if I lose my position. Mthembu, however, hinted that it wouldn t be easy to remove him. I was appointed by the NEC, not Dlamini and Maine. He described charges against Gordhan as a political ploy and absolute nonsense which would cease to exist after his court appearance. Without mentioning names, Mthembu appeared to be taking a swipe at Zuma and his allies when he said: Don t use state organs to fight your political enemy. I don t care even if they remove me, but this nonsense must stop. We want to see the ANC back to where it was before. It taught us to fight for the truth and I will do so. Stop using state instruments for your own agendas. There is a political ploy against comrade Gordhan. Those who are against him have been fishing for something that is not there. With regard to the growing rifts in the ANC ranks, Mthembu said: Even the apartheid government didn t treat their ministers in this manner. Where is Nhlanhla Nene? He was a good minister but was removed. If we don t change our behaviour (before) 2019, the ANC will die a serious political death. On August 3, the people spoke and we have to listen to them. Mthembu said: We must take the ANC back to where it was when Nelson Mandela and other principled veterans led the party. Independent Media