Durban - KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Human Settlements, Ravi Pillay has reiterated his support for Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. Pillay declared his support for Gordhan, Ivan Pillay and Oupa Magashule, all former SA Revenue Services officials charged with fraud by the National Prosecuting Authority, while speaking at the Minara Chamber of Commerce Recognition Awards on Friday held at the NMJ Hall in Morningside. I am repeating something that I have said before around issues of Pravin Gordhan and Ivan Pillay, amongst others, who are to appear in court. This is a matter of concern, he said. He was presenting the speech on behalf of the MEC for Economic Development and ANC chairman, Sihle Zikalala who could not attend due to unforeseen circumstances . His (Gordhan s) contribution to the country is exceptional, have no doubt about their honesty, their integrity and commitment in building the national democratic society that we are all trying to do, he said. He described Pillay as an exemplary comrade in exile during the fight against apartheid. The three men were charged with fraud after Pillay was granted early retirement by Gordhan while he was still commissioner at Sars. They will have their day in court on November 2. Gordhan is set to deliver his medium-term budget speech on Wednesday. Pillay, who is also a member of the ANC provincial executive committee, expressed his concerns over the charges, saying his relationship with both Gordhan and Pillay spanned more than 40 years. Meanwhile, the Active Citizens Movement, comprised mostly of former United Democratic Front stalwarts was accelerating its support for the trio. ACM will stage a peaceful protest at the Gugu Dlamini Park, next to The Workshop Shopping Centre in solidarity with the three men. Permission has been granted by the eThekwini Municipality. The movement will also be convening meetings around Durban including in township such as uMlazi and Inanda to bolster support before the case hearing. Meetings will be also held in Chatsworth, Phoenix and Port Shepstone. The charges against Gordhan have created a schism in the ANC. Some have come out in full support of Gordhan while others insist that he is not above the law. Pillay expressed confidence that justice will prevail.On the racial tensions in the province, Pillay said the Office of the Premier would hold a social cohesion summit.He said the fight against racial tensions required a buy-in from powerful and influential people, like the people who are sitting here , he said as he gestured to the guests. UDF stalwarts, Swaminathan Gounden and Kay Moonsamy were honoured with the lifetime achievement awards for their contribution in the fight against the repressive apartheid laws. Among those who were present at the awards were deputy mayor, Fawzia Peer and president of the South African Chamber of Commerce, Zeph Ndlovu. Sunday Tribune